# Introduction Module Federation in Webpack 5

* Federated modules, which is a really cool and exciting new feature in Weback 5 O. I could just point you to this article, but I have to say II pointed a few friends of that and they're kind of like I don't get it. So what I want to do is put together a video that kind of shows off some of the main feature points so that you can kind of get right into it and get excited about it. Because I am super stoked about it. Oh, okay. So let's start with with a react App

* You're going to have your libraries at the foundation, react, react, dumb, redo, slow dash material. Ui, what have you? On top of that, you're going to have your store. And then on top of that, you're going to have a bunch of your front end react components. And this is just a visual representation of it. So let's make two of these things okay. So we'll call the 1st one the home page, and the 2nd one the search page Now let's say you get a request. You got a really cool product carousel on the home page and you want to see it on the search page as well, but they're two different projects. So what are you going to do?

* Well, the 1st thing you can do is try to extract that code and put it into an mpm library, and then you get into that kind of publish flow, right? So now you got this external project, you publish it. Now you got to get that new version and republish your apps. That's kind of. daunting, right? So people have been looking for more of a runtime approach. Okay. So let's promote that now.

* Maybe up to an edge side include. In this case, you go and extract the code, then create a bundle of H. M. L. J. S and C. S. S. And put that up on S3 somewhere. And then you'd use edge side includes to bring it in right before it goes out to the customer That works, but it doesn't really play all that well with the react. React likes to control the Dom from where it sits all the way down. So it's not gonna be super excited if you go and inject some arbitrary HTML in the middle of it. Okay. So what's the other option?

* One other option is to do a microfe thing. So we've looked at a bunch of these on this channel. There is open components, tailor, single spa, zoid. There's a bunch of different things, but the gist of it is you're going to go and extract again that component out. Bundle it is something, an open c`omponent or whatever. Send it off, register it somewhere, and then consume it in the application. Of course, you do get that live connection. So once you published it, it's live everywhere. But it's still its own externalized thing.

* Now there is Federated modules as part of Web Pack 5. What you can do is now you can just leave it in place. That product carousel stays in home, but then it's externalized and search. can then include it almost seamlessly, as we'll see in just a second And it also brings along any dependencies, any libraries it needs to go along with a further ride. It's really cool So let's go check it out in the code.

## Home page

* And provides a shared header. Now let's have a look in the home and look at the wet pack. So this is. just a normal webpack and big with the exception that we're bringing in this module federation plugin. And then we define that down in the plugins. And we can see here our name is home. And I guess the name of the library. Not sure why they specifically called that out Then there's the name for the remote entry file. This is the file that has the meta description of all the stuff that the a exports, which is defined here below Then we have any remotes that we want to import from. And we want the header from the nav project. So we'll bring in the nav. Then we have to expose what we want from this project home and then finally there are the libraries that we want to bend out Okay. So let's have a look at how home is bringing in that header from now.
* And it's just a simple import and then we use it just like that. How cool is that But where does the home app? Nowhere to get that nap code. Well, that happens over an index. Html, and the head where we import the remote entry javascript from the now project. Oh, and home is on for 3000 search is on port 3002 and NAV is on port 3003. That's why it's 3003 year. And this is what those three apps look like. Here is home. Notice how it's got a purple header and search which has the default blue header And in the NAV project, which just displays the header which is also in its default blue, I'm calling out the color because these three projects use material UI and material supports theming and this demonstrates the theming works even across the code shared by different applications. I mean of course it does, but it's still super cool. So. what we want is this cool product carousel.
* So we want that to go over on the search page. So let's make that happen. First thing I need to do is go over to searches index html and add a remote entry for home. Next I need to add that to the list of remotes over the webpack, and then restart all that web packing Next I'll import it, and I'll put it in the page And then I'll refresh the page and there it is. And if I look at the network tab, I can see it being dynamically imported. That means that if I change it in home. I It'll change here instantaneously. Alright now I wanna see if I can lazy load this stuff.
* After the initial page load. Nice. All right, neat. So now that part of carousel is in search as well as name in home and dynamically updated between those two. That's awesome. But More. Can we go and perhaps do something other than share react objects? Well, let's try that out. Let's kick this off. The home page already has a list of fruit in it, and the product card component. So we just need to expose those. We made the changes the webpack can fix, so let's restart. Just be safe And then over in search, I'm going to import the fruit data array and the product card. Next, I'll make a little search field. And a grid to show the mall. So while I'm typing this out, the point here is you demonstrate that you don't just have to export react components. It can be any Javascript data like this or classes or plane functions or components from different line frameworks, whatever OK, so the first pass will just show the names of all the fruit Looks like we have them all, so it's filter as you would on a search page. Am I right? So that all looks good. And now let's use that product card. And he's from home, which is super cool. I mean, if home changes, this is gonna change too. Alright. So hopefully you're seeing how amazing and extensible this mechanism is. And I think it changed.
* actually changes the architecture of how we think about what a web application does, right? We Normally think of what a application is just serving the customer, serving up the html or that js or whatever. The customer renders and so on and so forth. Now we have an entirely separate surface, which is an exposure of the internals to other applications. And we can think about this in all kinds of cool context. Imagine an admin app that goes and consumes. react components from the front end app that's going to go and render the content that it's altering, right? So now you're getting live previews because if it are pixel perfect because the admin app is actually reusing the code from the front end app. You think about sharing analytics rules and libraries. You can think about sharing globalization in the strings and we haven't even gotten into the fact that this is all doable by SSR, which means that now that code is available to you on the server side and we can start thinking about all kinds of ways to extend servers with externalized code live. So that's really interesting. I think I can't wait to see how this evolves over the next couple of years. So really excited about that Anyway, if you like this video, please like it. If you really liked it, I'm always up for a subscribe. If you want to keep up with all things friend and advance finding topics, just click on that bell button and then you'll get notifications whenever I upload a new video which is great and of course thank you and be kind to each other and for the people that I'm watching over the past couple weeks, we've done a lot on Ecma script and react and dynamic loading. And I know this is kind of in that space and competitive with that. In fact, very competitive with that That's just the way of JavaScript folks. I mean, honestly, you're always going to find three or four ways to do the same sort of thing and they all have those pros and cons and knowing about them is the really critical piece and you know, I like the Mandalorian says, you know This is the way The user
